Add ERC: Smart Contract Lifecycle Registry (#1363)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-8089.md

---
eip: 8089
title: Smart Contract Lifecycle Registry

> description: This EIP proposes a registry for tracking the smart contract lifecycle status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A registry for tracking smart contract lifecycle status.
```

Author: fixed

- `Terminated`: The contract cannot be used, and its usability is not recoverable. Used for obsolete or abandoned contracts to signal they should be ignored or archived (e.g., The contract is paused and revoked pauser role, resulting no one can revert the pause state and the contracts is completely not callable).

The `ContractMetadata` struct stores metadata for each contract, including: 

- `status`: The current operational status, REQUIRED to track lifecycle state.

- `extraData`: An extra data field to store additional information of the contract, OPTIONAL for context (e.g., IPFS storing additional data to store details of audit reports, proxy implementation address, etc).

- `statusUpdateTimestamp`: The block timestamp of the last modification time of status, REQUIRED to track maintain auditability.

### Implementation Requirements

> - Access Control: MUST use role-based access control (e.g., OpenZeppelin's `Ownable` or `AccessControl`) to restrict `registerContract()`, `modifyContractStatus()`, `modifyContractExtraData()` and `removeContract()` to authorized addresses.

Reviewer: Mentioning OpenZeppelin is an external link. We generally don't permit them, with few exceptions.

On another note, I'm not sure it makes sense to mandate a particular style of access control. That seems like something that isn't necessary for contracts/software to integrate with the registry (only an authorized/unauthorized check is sufficient most of the time).

Author: Removed the linking to OpenZeppelin in the doc

- Events: MUST emit events for all state changes to enable off-chain indexing by tools like block explorers.

- Input Validation: `registerContract()` MUST revert if `contractAddress` is already registered or zero. `modifyContractStatus()`, `modifyContractExtraData()` and `removeContract()` MUST revert if `contractAddress` is not registered.

> - Extensibility: MAY include additional fields or functions, but core functionality MUST remain compatible.

Reviewer: This is kinda just a given for all standards. Unless something is explicitly forbidden, it's assumed to be allowed.

Author: removed

- Exclusion of Privileged Accounts: Fields for tracking ownership (e.g., `owner`) were considered but excluded due to the complexity of smart contract ownership models. Not all contracts have a single privileged account (e.g., immutable contracts, multisigs, or role-based systems like OpenZeppelin's `AccessControl`). Tracking privileged accounts accurately requires a dedicated registry to handle diverse models, which is better addressed in a separate EIP.

- Exclusion of Upgrade-Specific Fields: Fields like `upgradeProxy` were considered but removed due to the diversity of upgrade patterns (e.g., [EIP-1967](./eip-1967.md) with a single implementation vs. [EIP-2535](./eip-2535.md) Diamonds with multiple facets). Instead, users can register each implementation contract (e.g., proxies, facets) as separate entries in the registry, using the `extraData` field to clarify relationships. Examples include:

  - [EIP-1967](./eip-1967.md) Proxy: The proxy (0xABC) and implementation (0xDEF) are registered separately. Proxy: `Active`, `extraData`: "EIP-1967 proxy using implementation 0xDEF." Implementation: `Active` or `Deprecated`, `extraData`: "Implementation for proxy 0xABC."

>   - [EIP-2535](./eip-2535.md) Diamond Proxy: The proxy (0x789) and facets (0x123, 0x456) are registered separately. Proxy: `Active`, `extraData`: "Diamond proxy with facets 0x123 (governance), 0x456 (staking)." Facet: `Active` or `Deprecated`, `extraData`: "Facet for governance in Diamond 0x789."

Reviewer: These don't seem relevant to the Specification section. Do these points belong alongside the reference implementation?

Author: removed in specification

- Data Integrity: The fields in `ContractMetadata` may contain misleading information. Implementers SHOULD verify using trusted sources before adding to registry to ensure accuracy and prevent misuse.

- State Transition Validation: Implementers SHOULD add additional checks to restrict invalid state transitions and preserve important states (e.g., `Terminated` not supposed to be changed to any status) when using `modifyContractStatus()` to maintain lifecycle integrity.

- Off-Chain Verification for Sensitive Statuses: Before updating a contract’s status to `Terminated`, implementers SHOULD validate claims using off-chain audits, public reports, or official announcements to ensure accuracy and prevent misuse. The `extraData` field MAY include references to such documentation for transparency.

- Legitimacy of Registry: Registry owners are RECOMMENDED to provide official channel for the public to verify the registry address (e.g., maintain registry address in official website) to prevent phishing by creating a fake registry contract.

> - Non-Contract Address Registration: Registering non-contract addresses (e.g., externally owned accounts) could mislead users or tools, compromising the registry’s integrity. Implementers MUST verify that an address contains deployed code in `registerContract()` at registration time.

Reviewer: Avoid creating requirements (with UPPERCASE keywords) outside of the specification section. They're too easy to miss.

Instead, put the requirements in the Specification section, and discuss their implications here.

Author: Adjusted the security consideration part and removed the requirements in each point to prevent confusion

---
eip: 8089
title: Smart Contract Development Lifecycle Registry
description: This EIP proposes a standardized registry for maintaining the smart contract development lifecycle status which allows easy tracking of the smart contract status.
author: Kenny Kung (@kennyk10) <kenny.kung@ant-intl.com>, Jeff Fei (@77eff) <j.fei@ant-intl.com>, Shulei（@baishuo13）<shulei.shu@ant-intl.com>
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8089-smart-contract-development-lifecycle-registry/26641
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-11-20
requires: 
---

## Abstract

> This EIP introduces a minimal registry interface for enforcing maintenance of smart contract development lifecycle status. The registry allows implementers to record and update the status and important metadata about contracts. The goal is to improve security and simplify inventory management for protocols by providing a minimal, interoperable mechanism for users and tools (e.g., block explorers) to monitor contract states.

Reviewer: I'd probably give at least one example of what a lifecycle status is in your abstract.

- **Loss of Inventory**: Entities cannot enumerate or monitor deployed contracts and avoid maintaining contract inventories due to perceived inconvenience, leading to disorganized asset management.

- **Security Risks**: Without an inventory, entities cannot promptly identify their deployed smart contracts and respond quickly to attacks due to discrepancy of statuses.

- **Inefficient Status Validation**: Security researchers require inefficient coordination with teams to discover discrepancies of smart contract state (e.g., contracts marked inactive internally but still callable).

- **Lack of Interoperable Tracking**: Custom or off-chain registries lack interoperability, isolating contract data and limiting integration with ecosystem tools.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119) and [RFC 8174](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174).

> The registry **MUST** include the following elements:

Author: Fixed

- Implementers **SHOULD** deploy one registry per entity to manage their contracts, ensuring scalability and customization.

## Rationale

This EIP aims to provide a standardized, minimal registry for tracking deployed smart contracts, focusing on their lifecycle status to improve security, and simplify inventory management. The design choices reflect the following considerations:

- **Simplified ContractMetadata Struct**: The `ContractMetadata` struct includes only `status`, `extraData` and `statusUpdateTimestamp` to keep the registry lightweight and focused on tracking contract deployment and lifecycle states. This minimizes gas costs and adoption barriers.

- **Exclusion of Privileged Accounts**: Fields for tracking ownership (e.g., `owner`) were considered but excluded due to the complexity of smart contract ownership models. Not all contracts have a single privileged account (e.g., immutable contracts, multisigs, or role-based systems like OpenZeppelin's `AccessControl`). Tracking privileged accounts accurately requires a dedicated registry to handle diverse models, which is better addressed in a separate EIP.

> - **Exclusion of Upgrade-Specific Fields**: Fields like `upgradeProxy` were considered but removed due to the diversity of upgrade patterns (e.g., [EIP-1967](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1967) with a single implementation vs. [EIP-2535](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2535) Diamonds with multiple facets). Instead, users can register each implementation contract (e.g., proxies, facets) as separate entries in the registry, using the `extraData` field to clarify relationships. Examples include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Exclusion of Upgrade-Specific Fields**: Fields like `upgradeProxy` were considered but removed due to the diversity of upgrade patterns (e.g., [EIP-1967](./eip-1967.md) with a single implementation vs. [EIP-2535](./eip-2535.md) Diamonds with multiple facets). Instead, users can register each implementation contract (e.g., proxies, facets) as separate entries in the registry, using the `extraData` field to clarify relationships. Examples include:
```

- **Flexible Extra Data Field**: The `extraData` field also allows users to provide context for complex scenarios, such as proxy implementations, without imposing rigid fields that may not suit all contracts. These extra data can also be any form like an IPFS link which stored extra information of the contracts (e.g., `extraData`: "https://ipfs.io/ipfs/xxxxxxxxx").

- **Exclusion of a Global Registry**: A global registry per chain was considered but rejected due to governance challenges. A single registry would require centralized or complex decentralized governance to manage updates, risking centralization, disputes, or unauthorized changes. Instead, this EIP prefers each entity deploy their own registry, ensuring autonomous control over their contract metadata and avoiding governance-related risks. However, global registry could also be implemented if a legitimate governance to manage updates can be ensured.

## Backwards Compatibility

No backward compatibility issues are introduced. This EIP introduces a new registry contract and does not affect existing Ethereum standards or contracts.

## Reference Implementation

> The reference implementation of the `ContractRegistry` provided in this EIP is for illustrative purposes only, demonstrating the proposed interface and functionality. Users **SHOULD** verify dependencies (e.g., OpenZeppelin libraries), adhere to security considerations, and adapt the code to their specific use case, including access control, state transitions, and scalability requirements.

Reviewer: Don't create requirements (with UPPERCASE keywords) outside of the specification section.
